COP4600


COURSE SYLLABUS


 COURSE DESCRIPTION

This course explores the design and implementation of various components of a
modern operating system, including I/O programming, interrupt handling, process
and resource management, computer networks, and distributed systems.


 CONTACT INFORMATION

Instructor

Alex Gomes de Siqueira

Phone Number

352-392-0466

Email

agomesdesiqueira@ufl.edu [agomesdesiqueira@ufl.edu]

Office Hours

By appointment (online through Zoom Conferences)

For questions about course content, your grade, or other personal issues, use
the Canvas mail tool. Expect a response within 24 hours.


 COURSE OBJECTIVES

By the end of this course, you will be able to:

 1. Discuss the main components of modern operating systems.
 2. Describe multiplexing, process / resource management, and distributed
    processing concepts.
 3. Apply knowledge of data structures, algorithms, performance analysis, and
    protocols to real-world problems in multi-threaded systems. 


 COURSE REQUIREMENTS

REQUIRED TEXTBOOK

Tanenbam, A. S. & Bos, H. (2022). Modern Operating Systems (5th Edition).
Pearson.

Note: 4th edition or later editions are also welcome.

 

HELPFUL REFERENCES


 * Silberschatz, A. Galvin, P. B., & Gagne, G. (2008). Operating System Concepts
   (8th Edition). Wiley.
 * Kernighan, B. W. & Ritchie, D. M. (1988). The C Programming Language (2nd
   Edition). Pearson.

 

PREREQUISITES

 * CDA 3101
 * COP 3530
 * Knowledge of C or C++

 

MINIMUM TECHNOLOGY REQUIREMENTS

The University of Florida expects students entering an online program to acquire
computer hardware and software appropriate to their degree program. Most
computers are capable of meeting the following general requirements. A student’s
computer configuration should include:

 * Webcam
 * Microphone
 * Broadband connection to the internet and related equipment (cable/DSL modem)
 * Microsoft Office Suite installed (provided by the university)

Individual colleges may have additional requirements or recommendations, which
students should review before starting their program.

 

MINIMUM TECHNICAL SKILLS

To complete your tasks in this course, you will need a basic understanding of
operating a computer and using word processing software.

 

MATERIALS/SUPPLY FEES

There is no supply fee for this course.


 

ZOOM

Zoom is an easy-to-use video conferencing service available to all UF students,
faculty, and staff that allows for meetings of up to 100 participants.

You can find resources and help using Zoom at the University of Florida's Zoom
[https://ufl.zoom.us/] website.


 COURSE POLICIES

Requirements for make-up exams, assignments, and other work in this course are
consistent with university policies that can be found on UF's Attendance
Policies
[http://catalog.ufl.edu/UGRD/academic-regulations/attendance-policies/] website.

As this is an online class, you are responsible for observing all posted due
dates and are encouraged to be self-directed and take responsibility for your
learning.

ASSESSMENTS

Assessments serve four purposes. The instructor uses them to determine how well
the class has mastered areas of knowledge and skill that students; the
instructor also uses them to evaluate individual students in order to assign
them a grade, as required by the university. The student can use assessments to
judge how well they have mastered areas of knowledge and skill and some types of
assessments present learning opportunities for the student to develop greater
knowledge and skill. 

This course will have several types of assessments serving various objectives. 

 

QUIZZES

Quizzes will be discussed at the beginning of the discussion meetings. The
objective is to test your understanding of the material you are assigned
(lecture videos and readings). The purpose of quizzes is to motivate the
students to read the assigned sections and watch lectures, and for the
instructor to determine how well the material has been understood. 

 

EXAMINATIONS

Examinations will have two parts: a quiz-style section and a free-response
section. The quiz-style part will mostly gauge how well the student has mastered
the basics of operating system components, policies, methods, and analysis.
These will typically be fill-in-the-blank text or numerical answers, although
some will be multiple-choice or matching questions.

Free-response questions require the student to engage with the material in a
deeper way - not simply regurgitate material from the text or lectures. The
questions may concern the design of a system to achieve a particular purpose in
a given context or to analyze and evaluate one or more proposed solutions to a
problem. The purpose is to gauge how well the basics taught in the course can be
applied to a problem, and to give the student an opportunity to develop more by
applying the knowledge and skills they have acquired.

To prepare for exams, mastery of the basics covered in lectures, quizzes,
exercises, and projects is a must. The best way to prepare is to ask yourself
(or your study group) how the new material relates to earlier material and how
it could be applied to solve problems. Do all of this well before the exam, and
get a good night's rest the night before. When you take the test, be sure to
read the question carefully before you answer it, and to read it again when you
are done. The questions are not intended to "trick" you or to humiliate you, but
to get you to think beyond the basics you could get from a crib sheet or the
text. 

 

EXERCISES AND PROJECTS

The discussion periods will mainly be devoted to explaining projects and
exercises. Exercises are mostly short programming/writing assignments designed
to develop the skills and experience you will need to do the projects. These
will usually be expected to take no more than an hour to complete.

Projects are more substantive and involve modifying the Reptilian Linux
operating system. For these, the amount of time you will need may vary widely,
but these are multi-week projects, so get started early. If you get done sooner,
great; but if you run into snags, make sure you have the time needed to recover.
Your best strategy is to map out existing OS functionality related to the
project, including directories, files, structures, variables, and functions that
may be relevant. Understand how these work together, then plan how you will
introduce the changes needed to complete the project. The compile time is likely
to be much longer than the times you are used to from small, application
programs, and builds can take well over half an hour, so plan your changes and
manage your schedule carefully to allow for enough iterations to complete your
work. Bear in mind that you cannot run a debugger on the OS directly, since it
has to provide services to all programs, including the debugger! Waiting until
the last few days to start a project is a sure recipe for disaster.

Projects are intended to help develop the skills and knowledge needed to
understand and modify a large, legacy codebase successfully. This will take
time, and there is no substitute for spending the effort to understand the
system first, then plan and execute the modifications, then thoroughly test that
these work correctly. Projects also require documentation in the form of a
report and man pages when appropriate. The report explains what you did, how,
why, and how you know it is right (or where it is not if it falls short in any
way). Man pages are the standard Unix way to provide online documentation of
commands, system calls, libraries, formats, etc.

Getting familiar with Unix commands and system calls will help greatly, as will
developing a good understanding of how the Linux kernel works. There are many
books and online tutorials on Unix, and every Unix system provides an online
manual (type "man man" to learn more). 

 

GENERAL PHILOSOPHY

This is probably going to be one of the most challenging courses you take as an
undergraduate. There is a great deal of material to cover, even to address the
most basic issues in operating systems. It is important to keep up with the
reading and viewing and to start on homework and projects early. It is like
drinking from a firehose, and you will need some time to digest the material you
read/view, so give yourself that time.

It is crucial to remember that getting a grade in this course is not the reason
you came to UF; not even getting your bachelor's degree is the prize you seek.
Your goal is to figure out where you fit in society and what career you will
pursue to build a fulfilling trajectory doing something you love to do and are
good at. The ability to apply the knowledge and skills you have acquired to the
challenges of importance in your discipline contributes to the success of
everyone - whether at a company, university, or other institution. It does not
do you any good to be given a good grade or a degree if you do not have the
competence to get the job done in your career. Take advantage of this
opportunity to acquire the knowledge and develop the skills you will need to
exercise in your career. If you get into trouble and are wedged, then seek help
from the instructor, peer mentors, teaching assistants, and your classmates to
get you over the hump. At the same time, do not look for answers to be handed to
you - go out and develop them. 


 GRADING POLICY

I will make every effort to have each assignment graded and posted within one
week of the due date.


 

COURSE GRADING POLICY

Assignment Category Points Percent Exercise 0 and Project 0 30 (all) 3%
Exercises (9, Drop 1) 20 each 21% Projects (3) 100 each 25% Quizzes (10, Drop 1)
15 each 15% Mid-Term Exam (1) 150 15% Final Exam (1) 180 20% Professionalism 10
1% TOTAL 1000 100%

 

GRADING SCALE

Percent Grade Grade Points 100 - 92.5 A 4.00 <92.5 - 89.5 A- 3.67 <89.5 - 86.5
B+ 3.33 <86.5 - 82.5 B 3.00 <82.5 - 79.5 B- 2.67 <79.5 - 76.5 C+ 2.33 <76.5 -
72.5 C 2.00 <72.5 - 69.5 C- 1.67 <69.5 - 66.5 D+ 1.33 <66.5 - 62.5 D 1.00 <62.5
- 59.5 D- 0.67 <59.5 - 0.0 E 0.00

See the current UF grading policies
[https://catalog.ufl.edu/ugrad/current/regulations/info/grades.aspx] for more
information.


 UF POLICIES

UNIVERSITY POLICY ON ACCOMMODATING STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES

Students with disabilities requesting accommodations should first register with
the Disability Resource Center [https://disability.ufl.edu/] (352-392-8565) by
providing appropriate documentation. Once registered, students will receive an
accommodation letter that must be presented to the instructor when requesting
accommodation. Students with disabilities should follow this procedure as early
as possible in the semester.

 

UNIVERSITY POLICY ON ACADEMIC CONDUCT

UF students are bound by The Honor Pledge, which states, “We, the members of the
University of Florida community, pledge to hold ourselves and our peers to the
highest standards of honesty and integrity by abiding by the Honor Code." On all
work submitted for credit by students at the University of Florida, the
following pledge is either required or implied: "On my honor, I have neither
given nor received unauthorized aid in doing this assignment." The Student Honor
Code and Student Conduct Code
[https://sccr.dso.ufl.edu/policies/student-honor-code-student-conduct-code/]
specifies a number of behaviors that are in violation of this code and the
possible sanctions. Furthermore, you are obligated to report any condition that
facilitates academic misconduct to appropriate personnel. If you have any
questions or concerns, please consult with the instructor or TAs in this class.

 

PLAGIARISM

The Student Honor Code and Student Conduct Code
[https://sccr.dso.ufl.edu/policies/student-honor-code-student-conduct-code/]
states that:

"A Student must not represent as the Student’s own work all or any portion of
the work of another. Plagiarism includes but is not limited to:

 * Stealing, misquoting, insufficiently paraphrasing, or patch-writing.
 * Self-plagiarism, which is the reuse of the Student’s own submitted work, or
   the simultaneous submission of the Student’s own work, without the full and
   clear acknowledgment and permission of the Faculty to whom it is submitted.
 * Submitting materials from any source without proper attribution.
 * Submitting a document, assignment, or material that, in whole or in part, is
   identical or substantially identical to a document or assignment the Student
   did not author."


 NETIQUETTE AND COMMUNICATION COURTESY

It is important to recognize that the online classroom is in fact a classroom,
and certain behaviors are expected when you communicate with both your peers and
your instructors. These guidelines for online behavior and interaction are known
as netiquette.

SECURITY

Remember that your password is the only thing protecting you from pranks or more
serious harm.

 * Don't share your password with anyone.
 * Change your password if you think someone else might know it.
 * Always log out when you are finished using the system.

GENERAL GUIDELINES

When communicating online:

 * Treat the instructor with respect, even via email or in any other online
   communication.
 * Always use your professors’ proper title: Dr. or Prof., or if you are unsure
   use Mr. or Ms.
 * Unless specifically invited, don’t refer to a professor by their first name.
 * Use clear and concise language.
 * Remember that all college-level communication should have correct spelling
   and grammar.
 * Avoid slang terms such as “wassup?” and texting abbreviations such as “u”
   instead of “you.”
 * Use standard fonts such as Times New Roman and use a size 12 or 14 point
   font.
 * Avoid using the caps lock feature AS IT CAN BE INTERPRETED AS YELLING.
 * Limit and possibly avoid the use of emoticons like :) .
 * Be cautious when using humor or sarcasm as tone is sometimes lost in an email
   or discussion post and your message might be taken seriously or be construed
   as being offensive.
 * Be careful with personal information (both yours and others).
 * Do not send confidential information via email.

EMAIL

When you send an email to your instructor, teaching assistant, or classmates:

 * Use a descriptive subject line.
 * Be brief.
 * Avoid attachments unless you are sure your recipients can open them.
 * Avoid HTML in favor of plain text.
 * Sign your message with your name and return email address.
 * Think before you send the email to more than one person. Does everyone really
   need to see your message?
 * Be sure you REALLY want everyone to receive your response when you click,
   “Reply All.”
 * Be sure that the message author intended for the information to be passed
   along before you click the “Forward” button.

DISCUSSION BOARDS

When posting on the discussion board in your online class:

 * Check to see if anyone already asked your question and received a reply
   before posting to the discussion board.
 * Remember your manners and say please and thank you when asking something of
   your classmates or instructor.
 * Be open-minded.
 * If you ask a question and many people respond, summarize all posts for the
   benefit of the class.
 * When posting:
   * Make posts that are on-topic and within the scope of the course material.
   * Be sure to read all messages in a thread before replying.
   * Be as brief as possible while still making a thorough comment.
   * Don’t repeat someone else’s post without adding something of your own to
     it.
   * Take your posts seriously. Review and edit your posts before sending.
   * Avoid short, generic replies such as, “I agree.” You should include why you
     agree or add to the previous point.
   * If you refer to something that was said in an earlier post, quote a few key
     lines so readers do not have to go back and figure out which post you are
     referring to.
   * Always give proper credit when referencing or quoting another source.
   * If you reply to a classmate’s question make sure your answer is correct,
     don’t guess.
   * Always be respectful of others’ opinions even when they differ from your
     own.
   * When you disagree with someone, you should express your differing opinion
     in a respectful, non-critical way.
   * Do not make personal or insulting remarks.
   * Do not write anything sarcastic or angry, it always backfires.
   * Do not type in ALL CAPS, if you do IT WILL LOOK LIKE YOU ARE YELLING.

ZOOM

When attending a Zoom class or meeting:

 * Do not share your Zoom classroom link or password with others.
 * Even though you may be alone at home, your professor and classmates can see
   you! While attending class in your pajamas is tempting, remember that wearing
   clothing is not optional. Dress appropriately.
 * Your professor and classmates can also see what is behind you, so be aware of
   your surroundings.
 * Make sure the background is not distracting or something you would not want
   your classmates to see.
   * When in doubt use a virtual background. If you choose to use one, you
     should test the background out first to make sure your device can support
     it.
   * Your background can express your personality, but be sure to avoid using
     backgrounds that may contain offensive images and language.
 * Mute is your friend, especially when you are in a location that can be noisy.
   Don’t leave your microphone open if you don’t have to.
 * If you want to speak, you can raise your hand (click the “raise hand” button
   at the center bottom of your screen) and wait to be called upon.


 GETTING HELP

TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES

For help with technical issues or difficulties with Canvas, please contact the
UF Computing Help Desk at:

 * http://helpdesk.ufl.edu [http://helpdesk.ufl.edu]
 * 352-392-HELP (4357)
 * Walk-in: HUB 132

Any requests for make-ups (assignments, exams, etc.) due to technical issues
should be accompanied by the ticket number received from the UF Computing Help
Desk when the problem was reported to them. The ticket number will document the
time and date of the problem. You should email your instructor within 24 hours
of the technical difficulty if you wish to request a make-up.

 

HEALTH AND WELLNESS

 * U Matter, We Care: If you or someone you know is in distress, please email
   umatter@ufl.edu, call 352-392-1575, or visit U Matter We Care
   [http://umatter.ufl.edu/] to refer or report a concern, and a team member
   will reach out to the student in distress.
 * Counseling and Wellness Center: Visit the UF Counseling & Wellness Center
   [http://counseling.ufl.edu/] website or call 352-392-1575 for information on
   crisis services and non-crisis services.
 * Student Health Care Center: Call 352-392-1161 for 24/7 information to help
   you find the care you need, or visit the UF Student Health Care Center
   [http://shcc.ufl.edu] website.
 * University Police Department: Visit the UF Police Department
   [http://police.ufl.edu/] website or call 352-392-1111 (or 9-1-1 for
   emergencies).
 * UF Health Shands Emergency Room/Trauma Center: For immediate medical care in
   Gainesville, call 352-733-0111, or go to the emergency room at 1515 SW Archer
   Road, Gainesville, FL 32608; Visit the UF Health Shands Emergency Room/Trauma
   Center [http://ufhealth.org/emergency-room-trauma-center] website.


 ACADEMIC AND STUDENT SUPPORT

 * Career Connections Center: For career assistance and counseling services,
   visit the UF Career Connections Center [http://career.ufl.edu/] website or
   call 352-392-1601.
 * Library Support: For various ways to receive assistance concerning using the
   libraries or finding resources, visit the UF George A. Smathers Libraries
   Ask-A-Librarian [https://uflib.ufl.edu/find/ask/] website.
 * Teaching Center: For general study skills and tutoring, visit the UF Teaching
   Center [http://teachingcenter.ufl.edu/] website or call 352-392-2010.
 * Writing Studio: For help with brainstorming, formatting, and writing papers,
   visit the University Writing Program Writing Studio
   [http://writing.ufl.edu/writing-studio/] website or call 352-846-1138.


 COURSE EVALUATIONS

Students are expected to provide professional and respectful feedback on the
quality of instruction in this course by completing course evaluations online
via GatorEvals. Guidance on how to give feedback in a professional and
respectful manner is available on the GatorEvals Providing Constructive Feedback
[https://gatorevals.aa.ufl.edu/students/] FAQ page. Students will be notified
when the evaluation period opens and can complete evaluations through the email
they receive from GatorEvals, in their Canvas course menu under GatorEvals, or
via the GatorEvals [https://ufl.bluera.com/ufl/] website. Summaries of course
evaluation results are available to students at the GatorEvals Public Results
[https://gatorevals.aa.ufl.edu/public-results] page. More information about UF's
course evaluation system can be found at the GatorEvals Faculty Evaluations
[https://gatorevals.aa.ufl.edu/] website.


 TIPS FOR SUCCESS

Taking a course online can be a lot of fun! Here are some tips that will help
you get the most of this course while taking full advantage of the online
format:

 * Schedule "class times" for yourself. It is important to do the coursework on
   time each week. You will receive a reduction in points for work that is
   turned in late!
 * Read ALL of the material contained on this site. There is a lot of helpful
   information that can save you time and help you meet the objectives of the
   course.
 * Print out the Course Summary located in the Course Syllabus and check things
   off as you go.
 * Take full advantage of the online discussion boards. Ask for help or
   clarification of the material if you need it.
 * Do not wait to ask questions! Waiting to ask a question might cause you to
   miss a due date.
 * Do your work well before the due dates. Sometimes things happen. If your
   computer goes down when you are trying to submit an assignment, you'll need
   time to troubleshoot the problem.
 * To be extra safe, back up your work to an external hard drive, thumb drive,
   or through a cloud service.


 PRIVACY AND ACCESSIBILITY POLICIES

 * Adobe
    * Adobe Privacy Policy [https://www.adobe.com/privacy/policy.html]
    * Adobe Accessibility [https://www.adobe.com/accessibility.html]

 * Instructure (Canvas)
   * Instructure Privacy Policy [https://www.instructure.com/policies/privacy]
   * Instructure Accessibility
     [https://www.instructure.com/canvas/accessibility]
 * Microsoft
   * Microsoft Privacy Policy
     [https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement]
   * Microsoft Accessibility
     [https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/accessibility/office?activetab=pivot_1%3aprimaryr2]
 * YouTube (Google)
   * YouTube (Google) Privacy Policy [https://policies.google.com/privacy]
   * YouTube (Google) Accessibility
     [https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/189278?hl=en]

 * Zoom
    * Zoom Privacy Policy [https://zoom.us/privacy]
    * Zoom Accessibility [https://zoom.us/accessibility]

 (Links to an external site.