CDA3101 COURSE SYLLABUS


WELCOME TO THE COURSE

Tu 3-4:55pm Carleton Auditorium

Th 4:05-4:55pm Carleton Auditorium

This class will provide you with knowledge and insight into how computers work.
 At the end of this class, you will be able to read a specification sheet for a
computer and know what all the parameters mean. Your learning experience will
include videos, online textbook activities, writing ARM assembly language
programs, and completing a cache simulation.

If you would like a PDF version of this syllabus, please click here:
HWCOE-CDA3101-Spring2023.pdf
[https://canvas.instructure.com/courses/1016~471300/files/1016~75197470?verifier=dyv7WsncISROXFNZHq65kHwJsuxdUR2TBuQu0cQA&wrap=1]


 COURSE DESCRIPTION

This course focuses on the organization of computing systems. In this course,
you will learn about:


 * Organization of computing systems.
 * Logical basis of computer structure.
 * Machine representation of instructions and data, flow of control, and basic
   machine instructions.
 * Assembly language programming.


 COURSE OBJECTIVES

By the end of this course, you will be able to:

 1. Calculate computer performance.
 2. Represent simple high level language programs in ARM.
 3. Represent ARM assembly language instructions in binary machine instructions.
 4. Describe and demonstrate the use of stack frames for saving local variables.
 5. Represent integers and floating-point numbers in binary.
 6. Trace the execution of ARM instructions through simple single cycle and
    pipelined datapaths.
 7. Distinguish between direct mapped, set associative, and fully associative
    cache designs.


 COURSE REQUIREMENTS

REQUIRED TEXTBOOK

The required textbook for this course will be the zyBooks version of Patterson &
Hennessy. Computer Organization and Design: ARM Edition. Morgan Kaufmann (ISBN
978-1-394-11658-4). You must purchase the zyBooks version of this text as your
participation grade will be assessed through its use. For instructions on how to
access zyBooks, please see the Orientation Module, under Key Course Elements
here
[https://canvas.instructure.com/courses/1016~471300/pages/course-orientation].

ZYBOOKS CODE FOR THE CURRENT SEMESTER:

UFLCDA3101ReschSpring2023

 

PREREQUISITES

To take this course, you must have completed the following courses:

 * COP 3504 or COP 3503
 * MAC 2233, MAC 2311 or MAC 3472
 * COT 3100

 

MINIMUM TECHNOLOGY REQUIREMENTS

The University of Florida expects students entering an online program to acquire
computer hardware and software appropriate to their degree program. Most
computers are capable of meeting the following general requirements. A student’s
computer configuration should include:

 * Webcam
 * Microphone
 * Broadband connection to the Internet and related equipment (Cable/DSL modem)
 * Microsoft Office Suite installed (provided by the university)

Individual colleges may have additional requirements or recommendations, which
students should review before starting their program.

Students should be able to download and install an application on their
computer.  

Students should be familiar with using the Linux command line interface.

ZOOM

Zoom is an easy-to-use video conferencing service available to all UF students,
faculty, and staff that allows for meetings of up to 100 participants.

You can find resources and help using Zoom at the University of Florida's Zoom
[https://ufl.zoom.us/] website.


 COURSE POLICIES

MAKE-UP POLICY


Examlets and the Final Exam may not be made up.  There is one dropped Examlet.  

 

LATE POLICY

Programming Assignments, Cache Analysis Assignment, and Buffer Overflow
Assignment may be turned in up to four days late with a late penalty of 10
points per day.  

 

HONESTY POLICY


Your code for your Programming Assignments and the Analysis Assignments must be
your own.  You may discuss assignments with others, but copy/pasting code from
other students or online resources is strictly prohibited. We will be using
TurnItIn to check for plagiarism. 

Your writing and graphs for the Cache Analysis Assignment must be your own. 
Copy/pasting writing and/or graphs from other students is strictly prohibited.

You may discuss and draw out algorithms for the assignments with other
students.  You may not copy code from another student.

EXAMLETS AND FINAL EXAM


Examlets and the Final Exam are taken on Honorlock on during the 4:05-4:55pm
class period on scheduled day for the examlet.  For Examlets and the Final Exam,
students may use the Leg reference sheet and one other printed reference sheet.

The Final Exam is May 5 10:30am-12:30pm

Taking the examlet or Final Exam at other than the scheduled time requires a
university approved excuse and must be arranged before the date of the examlet
or Final Exam.

Examlets and Final Exam may not be made up.  There is a dropped examlet.

DISCUSSION OF GRADES


Grades on any assignment may be discussed with me via email or in office hours
up to seven days after the grade was released.

 

EXTRA CREDIT


Up to two extra credit assignments may be completed.  Each assignment will be
worth 1% of your grade.  The extra credit will be added manually to your grade
at the end of the course.  

ETIQUETTE EXPECTATIONS

Please communicate in a professional manner in email, on Microsoft Teams, and in
Canvas Discussions.  Guidelines can be found here.
[http://%E2%80%AFhttps://www.cise.ufl.edu/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/CISE_Netiquette_Guide.pdf]


 GRADING POLICY

We will make every effort to have each assignment graded and posted within one
week of the due date. However, due to the large number of students in each
section of this course, returning grades

 

COURSE GRADING POLICY

Assignment Points Examlets (6, 1 drop) 30% Programming Assignments 22% Buffer
Overflow Assignment 10% Cache Analysis Assignment 10% zyBooks  Activities 8%
Final Exam 20% Total 100%

 

GRADING SCALE

Percent

Grade

Grade Points

93 - 100

A

4.00

90.0 - 92.99

A-

3.67

87 - 89.99

B+

3.33

83 - 86.99

B

3.00

80.0 - 82.99

B-

2.67

77 - 79.99

C+

2.33

73 - 76.99

C

2.00

70.0 - 72.99

C-

1.67

67 - 69.99

D+

1.33

63 - 66.99

D

1.00

60.0 - 63.99

D-

0.67

0 - 59.99

E

0.00

See the current UF grading policies
[https://catalog.ufl.edu/ugrad/current/regulations/info/grades.aspx] for more
information.


 COURSE EVALUATIONS

Students are expected to provide professional and respectful feedback on the
quality of instruction in this course by completing course evaluations online
via GatorEvals. Guidance on how to give feedback in a professional and
respectful manner is available on the GatorEvals Providing Constructive Feedback
[https://gatorevals.aa.ufl.edu/students/] FAQ page. Students will be notified
when the evaluation period opens and can complete evaluations through the email
they receive from GatorEvals, in their Canvas course menu under GatorEvals, or
via the GatorEvals [https://ufl.bluera.com/ufl/] website. Summaries of course
evaluation results are available to students at the GatorEvals Public Results
[https://gatorevals.aa.ufl.edu/public-results] page. More information about UF's
course evaluation system can be found at the GatorEvals Faculty Evaluations
[https://gatorevals.aa.ufl.edu/] website.


 TIPS FOR SUCCESS


Taking a course online can be a lot of fun! Here are some tips that will help
you get the most of this course while taking full advantage of the online
format:

 * Schedule "class times" for yourself. It is important to do the coursework on
   time each week. You will receive a reduction in points for work that is
   turned in late!
 * Read ALL of the material contained on this site. There is a lot of helpful
   information that can save you time and help you meet the objectives of the
   course.
 * Print out the Course Summary located in the Course Syllabus and check things
   off as you go.
 * Take full advantage of the online discussion boards. Ask for help or
   clarification of the material if you need it.
 * Do not wait to ask questions! Waiting to ask a question might cause you to
   miss a due date.
 * Do your work well before the due dates. Sometimes things happen. If your
   computer goes down when you are trying to submit an assignment, you'll need
   time to troubleshoot the problem.
 * To be extra safe, back up your work to an external hard drive, thumb drive,
   or through a cloud service.


 UF POLICIES


UNIVERSITY POLICY ON ACCOMMODATING STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES

Students with disabilities requesting accommodations should first register with
the Disability Resource Center [https://disability.ufl.edu/] (352-392-8565) by
providing appropriate documentation.  Once registered, students will receive an
accommodation letter that must be presented to the instructor when requesting
accommodation.  Students with disabilities should follow this procedure as early
as possible in the semester.

 

UNIVERSITY POLICY ON ACADEMIC CONDUCT

UF students are bound by The Honor Pledge, which states, “We, the members of the
University of Florida community, pledge to hold ourselves and our peers to the
highest standards of honesty and integrity by abiding by the Honor Code.  On all
work submitted for credit by students at the University of Florida, the
following pledge is either required or implied: "On my honor, I have neither
given nor received unauthorized aid in doing this assignment." The Student Honor
Code and Student Conduct Code
[https://sccr.dso.ufl.edu/policies/student-honor-code-student-conduct-code/]
specifies a number of behaviors that are in violation of this code and the
possible sanctions. Furthermore, you are obligated to report any condition that
facilitates academic misconduct to appropriate personnel.  If you have any
questions or concerns, please consult with the instructor or TAs in this class.

 

PLAGIARISM

The Student Honor Code and Student Conduct Code
[https://sccr.dso.ufl.edu/policies/student-honor-code-student-conduct-code/]
states that a Student must not represent as the Student’s own work all or any
portion of the work of another. Plagiarism includes but is not limited to:

 * Stealing, misquoting, insufficiently paraphrasing, or patch-writing.
 * Self-plagiarism is the reuse of the Student’s own submitted work, or the
   simultaneous submission of the Student’s own work, without the full and clear
   acknowledgment and permission of the Faculty to whom it is submitted.
 * Submitting materials from any source without proper attribution.
 * Submitting a document, assignment, or material that, in whole or in part, is
   identical or substantially identical to a document or assignment the Student
   did not author.


 SOFTWARE USE


All faculty, staff, and students of the University are required and expected to
obey the laws and legal agreements governing software use. Failure to do so can
lead to monetary damages and/or criminal penalties for the individual violator.
Because such violations are also against University policies and rules,
disciplinary action will be taken as appropriate. We, the members of the
University of Florida community, pledge to uphold ourselves and our peers to the
highest standards of honesty and integrity.


 PRIVACY AND ACCESSIBILITY POLICIES


There are federal laws protecting your privacy with regards to grades earned in
courses and on individual assignments. For more information, please visit the
Registrar's explanation of your Ferpa rights here
[https://registrar.ufl.edu/ferpa/].

For information about the privacy policies of the tools used in this course, see
the links below:

 * Instructure (Canvas)
   * Instructure Privacy Policy [https://www.instructure.com/policies/privacy]
   * Instructure Accessibility
     [https://www.instructure.com/canvas/accessibility]
 * Zoom
   * Zoom Privacy Policy [https://zoom.us/privacy]
   * Zoom Accessibility [https://zoom.us/accessibility]
 * Honorlock
   * Honorlock Privacy Policy [https://honorlock.com/student-privacy-statement/]
   * Honorlock Accessibility [https://honorlock.com/accessibility-statement/]
 * Zybooks
   * Zybooks Privacy [https://www.zybooks.com/privacy-policy/]
   * Zybooks Accessibility
     [http://%E2%80%AFhttps://www.zybooks.com/accessibility/%E2%80%AF]


 COMMITMENT TO A SAFE AND INCLUSIVE LEARNING ENVIRONMENT


The Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering values broad diversity within our
community and is committed to individual and group empowerment, inclusion, and
the elimination of discrimination. It is expected that every person in this
class will treat one another with dignity and respect regardless of gender,
sexuality, disability, age, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, and culture.

If you feel like your performance in class is being impacted by discrimination
or harassment of any kind, please contact your instructor or any of the
following:

 * Your academic advisor or Graduate Program Coordinator
 * Jennifer Nappo, Director of Human Resources, 352-392-0904, jpennacc@ufl.edu
   [jpennacc@ufl.edu]
 * Curtis Taylor, Associate Dean of Student Affairs, 352-392-2177,
   taylor@eng.ufl.edu [taylor@eng.ufl.edu]
 * Toshikazu Nishida, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, 352-392-0943,
   nishida@eng.ufl.edu [nishida@eng.ufl.edu]


 GETTING HELP


TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES

For help with technical issues or difficulties with Canvas, please contact the
UF Help Desk at:

 * http://helpdesk.ufl.edu [http://helpdesk.ufl.edu]
 * (352) 392-HELP (4357)
 * Walk-in: HUB 132

Any requests for make-ups due to technical issues should be accompanied by the
ticket number received from the Help Desk when the problem was reported to them.
The ticket number will document the time and date of the problem. You should
email your instructor within 24 hours of the technical difficulty if you wish to
request a make-up.

 

HEALTH AND WELLNESS

 * U Matter, We Care: If you or someone you know is in distress, please email
   umatter@ufl.edu, call 352-392-1575, or visit U Matter We Care
   [http://umatter.ufl.edu/] to refer or report a concern, and a team member
   will reach out to the student in distress.
 * Counseling and Wellness Center:  Visit the UF Counseling & Wellness Center
   [http://counseling.ufl.edu/] website or call 352-392-1575 for information on
   crisis services and non-crisis services.
 * Student Health Care Center: Call 352-392-1161 for 24/7 information to help
   you find the care you need, or visit the UF Student Health Care Center
   [http://shcc.ufl.edu] website.
 * University Police Department: Visit the UF Police Department
   [http://police.ufl.edu/] website or call 352-392-1111 (or 9-1-1 for
   emergencies).
 * UF Health Shands Emergency Room/Trauma Center: For immediate medical care in
   Gainesville, call 352-733-0111, or go to the emergency room at 1515 SW Archer
   Road, Gainesville, FL 32608; Visit the UF Health Shands Emergency Room/Trauma
   Center [http://ufhealth.org/emergency-room-trauma-center] website.


 ACADEMIC AND STUDENT SUPPORT


 * Career Connections Center: For career assistance and counseling services,
   visit the UF Career Connections Center [http://career.ufl.edu/] website or
   call 352-392-1601.
 * Library Support:  For various ways to receive assistance concerning using the
   libraries or finding resources, visit the UF George A. Smathers Libraries
   Ask-A-Librarian [http://cms.uflib.ufl.edu/ask] website.
 * Teaching Center: For general study skills and tutoring, visit the UF Teaching
   Center [http://teachingcenter.ufl.edu/] website or call 352-392-2010.
 * Writing Studio: For help with brainstorming, formatting, and writing papers,
   visit the University Writing Program Writing Studio
   [http://writing.ufl.edu/writing-studio/] website or call 352-846-1138.