Introduction to Competitive Programming
CIS 4930   Class# 28119
Credits: 3
Class Periods:   MWF Period 4 10:40am – 11:30am
Location:   CSE E121
Academic Term:  Fall 2023

Instructor:  Rong Zhang

 * Office location: CSE E526
 * E-mail address: rzhang@cise.ufl.edu [rzhang@cise.ufl.edu]
 * Phone number: 352-294-6680
 * Office hours: noon - 2pm on Mondays

Peer Mentor:

Please contact through the Canvas website

 * Baldwin, John Arthur,Jr <johnbaldwin@ufl.edu>, office hours:  Tuesday 9-10 am
   and Thursday from 3-4 pm
 * Mott, Joshua <jmott1@ufl.edu> office hours: Wednesday from 11:45-12:45 and
   from Friday 12:45-1:45 

Course Description

Introducing techniques for attacking and solving challenging computational
problems. Topics including search, divide and conquer, dynamic programming,
graph, string processing, and computational geometry

Course Pre-Requisites / Co-Requisites

COP 3530 Data Structures and Algorithm with a minimum grade of B

Course Objectives

Sharpen programming and problem-solving skills.  Able to select appropriate
algorithms for a given problem, integrate multiple algorithms to solve a complex
problem, and implement advanced algorithms in a timely manner. Solve problems in
teams.

We expect that the best students from this course will represent UF at the
regional ACM Programming Competition, and possibly at the North American and
international ACM Competition.

Materials and Supply Fees

Add'l Course Fees: $5.55

Recommended Materials

 * Guide to Competitive Programming
   * Authors: Antti Laaksonen
   * Publisher: Springer
   * ISBN: 3319725467
 * Algorithms Unlocked
   * Authors: Cormen, Thomas H
   * Publisher: MIT Press
   * ISBN: 0262518805

Course Schedule

 * Week 1:   Introduction and Efficiency
 * Week 2:   Data Structure
 * Week 3:   Sorting and Searching
 * Week 4:   Greedy Algorithm          
 * Week 5:   Dynamic Programming    
 * Week 6:   Dynamic Programming – cont.
 * Week 7:   Graph Algorithms
 * Week 8:   Graph Algorithms - cont.
 * Week 9:   Algorithm Design
 * Week 10: Range Queries
 * Week 11: Tree Algorithms
 * Week 12: String Algorithms
 * Week 13: Geometry Algorithms
 * Week 14: Bit Manipulations

* one week means three 50 minutes class time. Schedule is subject to change

Attendance Policy, Class Expectations, and Make-Up Policy

You are expected to attend class. There will be class activities which will be
graded and count toward your final grade. Excused absences must be consistent
with university policies in the undergraduate catalog
(https://catalog.ufl.edu/ugrad/current/regulations/info/attendance.aspx (Links
to an external site.)
[https://catalog.ufl.edu/ugrad/current/regulations/info/attendance.aspx]) and
require appropriate documentation.

You may discuss assignments with other students. But you must write the code by
yourself. If one submission is proven to be copied from another student or
directly from the internet, 0 point will be given.

Late assignments will be accepted with a penalty of deduction of 10% of the
maximum point value every 12 hours, for up to 3 days.

Evaluation of Grades

Assignment Total Points Percentage of Final Grade Homework Sets (12) 100 each
35% Midterm Exam 100 25% Final Exam 100 25% Practice Contests (9)  10 each 15%
Total 100%

Grading Policy

Grade
Range
A
100 %
to 94.0%
A-
< 94.0 %
to 90.0%
B+
< 90.0 %
to 87.0%
B
< 87.0 %
to 84.0%
B-
< 84.0 %
to 80.0%
C+
< 80.0 %
to 77.0%
C
< 77.0 %
to 74.0%
C-
< 74.0 %
to 70.0%
D+
< 70.0 %
to 67.0%
D
< 67.0 %
to 64.0%
D-
< 64.0 %
to 61.0%
F
< 61.0 %
to 0.0%

More information on UF grading policy may be found
at: https://catalog.ufl.edu/ugrad/current/regulations/info/grades.aspx (Links to
an external site.)
[https://catalog.ufl.edu/ugrad/current/regulations/info/grades.aspx]

More information on UF grading policy may be found
at: https://catalog.ufl.edu/ugrad/current/regulations/info/grades.aspx
[https://catalog.ufl.edu/ugrad/current/regulations/info/grades.aspx]



Students Requiring Accommodations

Students with disabilities who experience learning barriers and would like to
request academic accommodations should connect with the disability Resource
Center by visiting https://disability.ufl.edu/students/get-started/
[https://disability.ufl.edu/students/get-started/]

It is important for students to share their accommodation letter with their
instructor and discuss their access needs, as early as possible in the semester.

Course Evaluation

Students are expected to provide professional and respectful feedback on the
quality of instruction in this course by completing course evaluations online
via GatorEvals. Guidance on how to give feedback in a professional and
respectful manner is available at https://gatorevals.aa.ufl.edu/students/
[https://gatorevals.aa.ufl.edu/students/]

Students will be notified when the evaluation period opens, and can complete
evaluations through the email they receive from GatorEvals, in their Canvas
course menu under GatorEvals, or via https://ufl.bluera.com/ufl/
[https://ufl.bluera.com/ufl/]

Summaries of course evaluation results are available to students
at https://gatorevals.aa.ufl.edu/public-results/
[https://gatorevals.aa.ufl.edu/public-results/]

University Honesty Policy

UF students are bound by The Honor Pledge which states, “We, the members of the
University of Florida community, pledge to hold ourselves and our peers to the
highest standards of honor and integrity by abiding by the Honor Code. On all
work submitted for credit by students at the University of Florida, the
following pledge is either required or implied: “On my honor, I have neither
given nor received unauthorized aid in doing this assignment.” The Conduct Code
(https://sccr.dso.ufl.edu/process/student-conduct-code/)
[https://sccr.dso.ufl.edu/process/student-conduct-code/]

 specifies a number of behaviors that are in violation of this code and the
possible sanctions.  If you have any questions or concerns, please consult with
the instructor or TAs in this class.

Commitment to a Safe and Inclusive Learning Environment

The Herbert Wertheim College of Engineering values broad diversity within our
community and is committed to individual and group empowerment, inclusion, and
the elimination of discrimination.  It is expected that every person in this
class will treat one another with dignity and respect regardless of gender,
sexuality, disability, age, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, and culture.

If you feel like your performance in class is being impacted by discrimination
or harassment of any kind, please contact your instructor or any of the
following:

Your academic advisor or Graduate Program Coordinator

Jennifer Nappo, Director of Human Resources, 352-392-0904, jpennacc@ufl.edu

Curtis Taylor, Associate Dean of Student Affairs, 352-392-2177,
taylor@eng.ufl.edu

Toshikazu Nishida, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs,
352-392-0943, nishida@eng.ufl.edu [nishida@eng.ufl.edu]

Software Use

All faculty, staff, and students of the University are required and expected to
obey the laws and legal agreements governing software use.  Failure to do so can
lead to monetary damages and/or criminal penalties for the individual violator. 
Because such violations are also against University policies and rules,
disciplinary action will be taken as appropriate.  We, the members of the
University of Florida community, pledge to uphold ourselves and our peers to the
highest standards of honesty and integrity.

Student Privacy

There are federal laws protecting your privacy with regards to grades earned in
courses and on individual assignments.  For more information, please
see:  https://registrar.ufl.edu/ferpa.html
[https://registrar.ufl.edu/ferpa.html]

Campus Resources:

Health and Wellness



U Matter, We Care:

Your well-being is important to the University of Florida.  The U Matter, We
Care initiative is committed to creating a culture of care on our campus by
encouraging members of our community to look out for one another and to reach
out for help if a member of our community is in need.  If you or a friend is in
distress, please contact umatter@ufl.edu so that the U Matter, We Care Team can
reach out to the student in distress.  A nighttime and weekend crisis counselor
is available by phone at 352-392-1575.  The U Matter, We Care Team can help
connect students to the many other helping resources available including, but
not limited to, Victim Advocates, Housing staff, and the Counseling and Wellness
Center.  Please remember that asking for help is a sign of strength.  In case of
emergency, call 9-1-1.

Counseling and Wellness Center: https://counseling.ufl.edu
[https://counseling.ufl.edu/], and  392-1575; and the University Police
Department: 392-1111 or 9-1-1 for emergencies.

Sexual Discrimination, Harassment, Assault, or Violence

If you or a friend has been subjected to sexual discrimination, sexual
harassment, sexual assault, or violence contact the Office of Title IX
Compliance [https://titleix.ufl.edu/], located at Yon Hall Room 427, 1908
Stadium Road, (352) 273-1094, title-ix@ufl.edu [title-ix@ufl.edu]

Sexual Assault Recovery Services (SARS)

Student Health Care Center, 392-1161.

University Police Department at 392-1111 (or 9-1-1 for emergencies),
or http://www.police.ufl.edu/ [http://www.police.ufl.edu/].

Academic Resources

E-learning technical support, 352-392-4357 (select option 2) or e-mail
to Learning-support@ufl.edu
[Learning-support@ufl.edu]. https://lss.at.ufl.edu/help.shtml
[https://lss.at.ufl.edu/help.shtml].

Career Resource Center, Reitz Union, 392-1601.  Career assistance and
counseling; https://career.ufl.edu [https://career.ufl.edu/].

Library Support, http://cms.uflib.ufl.edu/ask [http://cms.uflib.ufl.edu/ask].
Various ways to receive assistance with respect to using the libraries or
finding resources.

Teaching Center, Broward Hall, 392-2010 or 392-6420. General study skills and
tutoring. https://teachingcenter.ufl.edu/ [https://teachingcenter.ufl.edu/].

Writing Studio, 302 Tigert Hall, 846-1138. Help brainstorming, formatting, and
writing papers. https://writing.ufl.edu/writing-studio/
[https://writing.ufl.edu/writing-studio/].

Student Complaints
Campus: https://sccr.dso.ufl.edu/policies/student-honor-code-student-conduct-code/
[https://sccr.dso.ufl.edu/policies/student-honor-code-student-conduct-code/];https://care.dso.ufl.edu
[https://care.dso.ufl.edu/]

On-Line Students
Complaints: http://www.distance.ufl.edu/student-complaint-process
[http://www.distance.ufl.edu/student-complaint-process]